docs/index.md, before:

# PhpAmqpLibMessengerBundle Documentations

This bundle adds support for `php-amqplib/php-amqplib` to Symfony Messenger, providing an alternative way to connect to RabbitMQ using a pure PHP library instead of the [php-amqp](https://github.com/php-amqp/php-amqp) C extension.

## Installation

```bash
composer require jwage/phpamqplib-messenger
```

Make sure the bundled is enabled in `config/bundles.php`:

```php
return [
    // ...
    Jwage\PhpAmqpLibMessengerBundle\PhpAmqpLibMessengerBundle::class => ['all' => true],
];
```

## DSN Format

It is easy to configure the bundle using a DSN and the `config/packages/messenger.yaml` file. The DSN format for the transport is:

```
phpamqplib://username:password@localhost[:post]/vhost[/exchange]
```

For SSL/TLS connections, use:

```
phpamqplibs://username:password@localhost[:port]/vhost[/exchange]
```

## Minimum Configuration

The minimum configuration required is the transports name and the DSN.

```yaml
# config/packages/messenger.yaml
framework:
    messenger:
        transports:
            orders:
                dsn: 'phpamqplib://guest:guest@localhost:5672/myvhost/orders'
```

The configuration above will create an exchange named `orders` and bind a queue named `orders` to it within the vhost `myvhost`.

## Advanced Configuration

The bundle supports all advanced RabbitMQ configuration options in your `config/packages/messenger.yaml` file. Here is an example configuration with all the default values you can customize:

```yaml
# config/packages/messenger.yaml
framework:
    messenger:
        transports:
            orders:
                dsn: 'phpamqplib://localhost:5672/%2f'
                options:
                    # Automatically setup the exchange and queues
                    # If disabled, you must manually setup the exchange and queues with messenger:setup-transports
                    auto_setup: true

                    # Connection options
                    host: 'localhost'
                    port: 5672
                    user: 'guest'
                    # Optional for compatibility with symfony/amqp-messenger
                    # login: 'guest'
                    password: 'guest'
                    vhost: '/'
                    insist: true
                    login_method: 'AMQPLAIN'
                    locale: 'en_US'

                    # Timeout settings
                    connect_timeout: 3.0
                    read_timeout: 3.0
                    write_timeout: 3.0
                    rpc_timeout: 3.0

                    # Heartbeat settings
                    heartbeat: 60
                    keepalive: true

                    # Prefetch settings
                    prefetch_count: 1

                    # Consume wait settings
                    wait_timeout: 1

                    # Confirm settings
                    confirm_enabled: true
                    confirm_timeout: 3.0

                    # SSL/TLS configuration
                    ssl:
                        cafile: '/path/to/ca_certificate.pem'
                        capath: '/path/to/ca_certificate_path'
                        local_cert: '/path/to/local_certificate.pem'
                        local_pk: '/path/to/local_private_key.pem'
                        verify_peer: true
                        verify_peer_name: true
                        passphrase: 'passphrase'
                        ciphers: 'TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384'
                        security_level: 2
                        crypto_method: !php/const:STREAM_CRYPTO_METHOD_ANY_CLIENT

                    # Exchange configuration
                    exchange:
                        name: 'orders_exchange'
                        type: 'fanout'
                        default_publish_routing_key: ''
                        passive: false
                        durable: true
                        auto_delete: false
                        arguments: []

                    # Queue configuration
                    queues:
                        orders_messages:
                            prefetch_count: 5 # overrides the connection prefetch_count: 1
                            wait_timeout: 2.0 # overrides the connection wait_timeout: 1.0
                            passive: false
                            durable: true
                            exclusive: false
                            auto_delete: false
                            # Optional "binding_keys" for compatibility with symfony/amqp-messenger
                            # binding_keys: ['routing_key1', 'routing_key2']
                            bindings:
                                routing_key1:
                                    arguments: []
                                routing_key2:
                                    arguments: []
                            arguments: []

                    # Delay configuration
                    delay:
                        exchange:
                            name: 'delays'
                            type: 'direct'
                            default_publish_routing_key: ''
                            passive: false
                            durable: true
                            auto_delete: false
                            arguments: []
                        enabled: true
                        auto_setup: true
                        queue_name_pattern: 'delay_%exchange_name%_%routing_key%_%delay%'
```

Any option can be specified in the DSN as an alternative to defining it in the `messenger.yaml` file:

```
phpamqplib://guest:guest@localhost?heartbeat=60&read_timeout=5.0
```

## AmqpStamp

This bundle offers an `AmqpStamp` that is mostly compatible with the `symfony/amqp-messenger` bundle. You can use it to set the routing key and other message attributes when dispatching a message.

The constructor is slightly different from the `symfony/amqp-messenger` bundle. This is what ours looks like:

```php
public function __construct(
    private string|null $routingKey = null,
    private array $attributes = [],
) {
}
```

Versus the `symfony/amqp-messenger` bundle:

```php
public function __construct(
    private ?string $routingKey = null,
    private int $flags = \AMQP_NOPARAM,
    private array $attributes = [],
) {
}
```
Here is how you can use it:

```php
use Jwage\PhpAmqpLibMessengerBundle\Transport\AmqpStamp;

$stamp = new AmqpStamp(routingKey: 'routing_key');

$envelope = Envelope::wrap($message)->with($stamp);

$bus->dispatch($envelope);
```

## Batch Dispatching

The bundle supports batch dispatching of messages. You can inject the `Jwage\PhpAmqpLibMessengerBundle\BatchMessageBusInterface` service, which wraps your message bus and provides a new method named `getBatch()` for dispatching messages in batches:

```php
class SomeService
{
    public function __construct(
        private MessageBusInterface $bus,
    ) {
    }

    public function someMethod(): void
    {
        $iterable = ...;

        $batch = Batch::new($this->bus, 10);

        foreach ($iterable as $message) {
            $batch->dispatch($message);
        }

        $batch->flush();
    }
}
```

## Deduplication Plugin

This bundle prioritizes message reliability over raw performance. By default, confirms are enabled to ensure that messages are acknowledged by the server. In the event of a connection exception, publishes are retried if there is uncertainty about whether a message was received by the server. This approach ensures that messages are not lost, but it also means that a message could potentially be published twice. Therefore, it is crucial to ensure that your message handlers are 100% idempotent to handle such scenarios gracefully.

Alternatively, you can use the [deduplication plugin](https://github.com/noxdafox/rabbitmq-message-deduplication) to deduplicate messages based on a message id. So if we have connection issues while publishing messages, we can safely retry publishing the message without worrying about duplications.

```yaml
# config/packages/messenger.yaml
framework:
    messenger:
        transports:
            async:
                dsn: 'phpamqplib://guest:guest@localhost:5672/myvhost'
                options:
                    exchange:
                        name: async_exchange
                        type: x-message-deduplication
                        arguments:
                            x-cache-size: 100000
                            x-cache-ttl: 60000
                    queues:
                        async_messages: ~
```

Now when publishing a message, you can set the `message_id` property when dispatching the message:

```php
$messageId = '123'; // generate unique message id

$envelope = Envelope::wrap($message)->with(AmqpStamp::createWithAttributes(
    attributes: [
        'headers' => ['x-deduplication-header' => $messageId],
        'message_id' => $messageId,
    ]
));

$bus->dispatch($envelope);
```

To make this easier, you can use the `DeduplicationPluginMiddleware` middleware that will automatically add the required attributes to each message if they are not already present:

```yaml
# config/packages/messenger.yaml
framework:
    messenger:
        buses:
            messenger.bus.default:
                middleware:
                    - 'Jwage\PhpAmqpLibMessengerBundle\Middleware\DeduplicationPluginMiddleware'
```

Commit message:

Add documentation about messenger:consume limitations.

docs/index.md, after:

# PhpAmqpLibMessengerBundle Documentations

This bundle adds support for `php-amqplib/php-amqplib` to Symfony Messenger, providing an alternative way to connect to RabbitMQ using a pure PHP library instead of the [php-amqp](https://github.com/php-amqp/php-amqp) C extension.

## Installation

```bash
composer require jwage/phpamqplib-messenger
```

Make sure the bundled is enabled in `config/bundles.php`:

```php
return [
    // ...
    Jwage\PhpAmqpLibMessengerBundle\PhpAmqpLibMessengerBundle::class => ['all' => true],
];
```

## DSN Format

It is easy to configure the bundle using a DSN and the `config/packages/messenger.yaml` file. The DSN format for the transport is:

```
phpamqplib://username:password@localhost[:post]/vhost[/exchange]
```

For SSL/TLS connections, use:

```
phpamqplibs://username:password@localhost[:port]/vhost[/exchange]
```

## Limitations

You cannot consume messages from multiple transports at the same time in one `messenger:consume` process. For example, you should not do this:

```bash
bin/console messenger:consume transport1 transport2
```

Instead, you should consume messages from each transport in a separate process.

```bash
bin/console messenger:consume transport1
bin/console messenger:consume transport2
```

Because we're using a blocking consumer, when you pass multiple transports to the `messenger:consume` command, the first transport will block the process and wait for messages for the configured `queueConfig.waitTimeout` value before the second transport will start consuming messages. This maybe could be enhanced to work better in the future, but we believe something would have to be changed in the Symfony Messenger component to support this. For now, we recommend consuming messages from each transport in a separate process.

## Minimum Configuration

The minimum configuration required is the transports name and the DSN.

```yaml
# config/packages/messenger.yaml
framework:
    messenger:
        transports:
            orders:
                dsn: 'phpamqplib://guest:guest@localhost:5672/myvhost/orders'
```

The configuration above will create an exchange named `orders` and bind a queue named `orders` to it within the vhost `myvhost`.

## Advanced Configuration

The bundle supports all advanced RabbitMQ configuration options in your `config/packages/messenger.yaml` file. Here is an example configuration with all the default values you can customize:

```yaml
# config/packages/messenger.yaml
framework:
    messenger:
        transports:
            orders:
                dsn: 'phpamqplib://localhost:5672/%2f'
                options:
                    # Automatically setup the exchange and queues
                    # If disabled, you must manually setup the exchange and queues with messenger:setup-transports
                    auto_setup: true

                    # Connection options
                    host: 'localhost'
                    port: 5672
                    user: 'guest'
                    # Optional for compatibility with symfony/amqp-messenger
                    # login: 'guest'
                    password: 'guest'
                    vhost: '/'
                    insist: true
                    login_method: 'AMQPLAIN'
                    locale: 'en_US'

                    # Timeout settings
                    connect_timeout: 3.0
                    read_timeout: 3.0
                    write_timeout: 3.0
                    rpc_timeout: 3.0

                    # Heartbeat settings
                    heartbeat: 60
                    keepalive: true

                    # Prefetch settings
                    prefetch_count: 1

                    # Consume wait settings
                    wait_timeout: 1

                    # Confirm settings
                    confirm_enabled: true
                    confirm_timeout: 3.0

                    # SSL/TLS configuration
                    ssl:
                        cafile: '/path/to/ca_certificate.pem'
                        capath: '/path/to/ca_certificate_path'
                        local_cert: '/path/to/local_certificate.pem'
                        local_pk: '/path/to/local_private_key.pem'
                        verify_peer: true
                        verify_peer_name: true
                        passphrase: 'passphrase'
                        ciphers: 'TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384'
                        security_level: 2
                        crypto_method: !php/const:STREAM_CRYPTO_METHOD_ANY_CLIENT

                    # Exchange configuration
                    exchange:
                        name: 'orders_exchange'
                        type: 'fanout'
                        default_publish_routing_key: ''
                        passive: false
                        durable: true
                        auto_delete: false
                        arguments: []

                    # Queue configuration
                    queues:
                        orders_messages:
                            prefetch_count: 5 # overrides the connection prefetch_count: 1
                            wait_timeout: 2.0 # overrides the connection wait_timeout: 1.0
                            passive: false
                            durable: true
                            exclusive: false
                            auto_delete: false
                            # Optional "binding_keys" for compatibility with symfony/amqp-messenger
                            # binding_keys: ['routing_key1', 'routing_key2']
                            bindings:
                                routing_key1:
                                    arguments: []
                                routing_key2:
                                    arguments: []
                            arguments: []

                    # Delay configuration
                    delay:
                        exchange:
                            name: 'delays'
                            type: 'direct'
                            default_publish_routing_key: ''
                            passive: false
                            durable: true
                            auto_delete: false
                            arguments: []
                        enabled: true
                        auto_setup: true
                        queue_name_pattern: 'delay_%exchange_name%_%routing_key%_%delay%'
```

Any option can be specified in the DSN as an alternative to defining it in the `messenger.yaml` file:

```
phpamqplib://guest:guest@localhost?heartbeat=60&read_timeout=5.0
```

## AmqpStamp

This bundle offers an `AmqpStamp` that is mostly compatible with the `symfony/amqp-messenger` bundle. You can use it to set the routing key and other message attributes when dispatching a message.

The constructor is slightly different from the `symfony/amqp-messenger` bundle. This is what ours looks like:

```php
public function __construct(
    private string|null $routingKey = null,
    private array $attributes = [],
) {
}
```

Versus the `symfony/amqp-messenger` bundle:

```php
public function __construct(
    private ?string $routingKey = null,
    private int $flags = \AMQP_NOPARAM,
    private array $attributes = [],
) {
}
```
Here is how you can use it:

```php
use Jwage\PhpAmqpLibMessengerBundle\Transport\AmqpStamp;

$stamp = new AmqpStamp(routingKey: 'routing_key');

$envelope = Envelope::wrap($message)->with($stamp);

$bus->dispatch($envelope);
```

## Batch Dispatching

The bundle supports batch dispatching of messages. You can inject the `Jwage\PhpAmqpLibMessengerBundle\BatchMessageBusInterface` service, which wraps your message bus and provides a new method named `getBatch()` for dispatching messages in batches:

```php
class SomeService
{
    public function __construct(
        private MessageBusInterface $bus,
    ) {
    }

    public function someMethod(): void
    {
        $iterable = ...;

        $batch = Batch::new($this->bus, 10);

        foreach ($iterable as $message) {
            $batch->dispatch($message);
        }

        $batch->flush();
    }
}
```

## Deduplication Plugin

This bundle prioritizes message reliability over raw performance. By default, confirms are enabled to ensure that messages are acknowledged by the server. In the event of a connection exception, publishes are retried if there is uncertainty about whether a message was received by the server. This approach ensures that messages are not lost, but it also means that a message could potentially be published twice. Therefore, it is crucial to ensure that your message handlers are 100% idempotent to handle such scenarios gracefully.

Alternatively, you can use the [deduplication plugin](https://github.com/noxdafox/rabbitmq-message-deduplication) to deduplicate messages based on a message id. So if we have connection issues while publishing messages, we can safely retry publishing the message without worrying about duplications.

```yaml
# config/packages/messenger.yaml
framework:
    messenger:
        transports:
            async:
                dsn: 'phpamqplib://guest:guest@localhost:5672/myvhost'
                options:
                    exchange:
                        name: async_exchange
                        type: x-message-deduplication
                        arguments:
                            x-cache-size: 100000
                            x-cache-ttl: 60000
                    queues:
                        async_messages: ~
```

Now when publishing a message, you can set the `message_id` property when dispatching the message:

```php
$messageId = '123'; // generate unique message id

$envelope = Envelope::wrap($message)->with(AmqpStamp::createWithAttributes(
    attributes: [
        'headers' => ['x-deduplication-header' => $messageId],
        'message_id' => $messageId,
    ]
));

$bus->dispatch($envelope);
```

To make this easier, you can use the `DeduplicationPluginMiddleware` middleware that will automatically add the required attributes to each message if they are not already present:

```yaml
# config/packages/messenger.yaml
framework:
    messenger:
        buses:
            messenger.bus.default:
                middleware:
                    - 'Jwage\PhpAmqpLibMessengerBundle\Middleware\DeduplicationPluginMiddleware'
```
